The research presented in this dissertation demonstrates that feed forward derating control can provide significant performance improvements in the right conditions. However, there are several lines of future research that should be pursued. 

The first line of research is to continue modeling feed forward derating control in more sophisticated and more realistic scenarios. The simulations carried out in Chapter \ref{Chapter6} are more sophisticated and closer to real world operation than the simulations carried out in Chapter \ref{Chapter4}. However, there are still several real world factors that were not captured in these simulations. It would be beneficial  to study the complications that would be caused by larger numbers of turbines, changes in wind direction, complex terrain, and atmospheric turbulence.

In this dissertation feed forward derating control was modeled using a two turbine system where the wind direction was known. This made the turbine to turbine communication simple. It was clear which turbine was operating as a sensor and which turbine was using that sensor data for feed forward control. Turbine to turbine communication becomes more complicated when there are more than two turbines. In a wind plant each turbine would have many other turbines it could share information with. Determining which turbines should provide feed forward data to which other turbines is not a trivial task. Wind plants often have complex layouts and in many wint plants wind direction changes seasonally or over the course of each day. A plant level controller capable of directing turbine-to-turbine communication and adapting to changes in wind direction must be developed. 

The simulations in this dissertation did not examine the effects of complex terrain. Many wind plants, such as offshore wind plants or wind plants in the plains of the central united states, have simple flat terrain. Other wind plants, including many of the most productive wind plants in California, have complex hilly terrain. These hills can significantly affect both gusts of wind and turbine wakes. More research is needed to determine how complex wind affects feed forward derating control. 

Some of the simulations in Chapter \ref{chapter4} modeled atmospheric turbulence, but they did not model turbine wake effects or changes in wind speed fluctuations as they travel downstream. The simulations in Chapter \ref{Chapter6} modeled  turbine wake effects and changes in wind speed fluctuations as they travel downstream. Research has shown that turbulence has a significant effect on turbine wakes.\cite{troldborg2015, troldborg2010,troldborg2010b,madsen2010} More research is needed to determine how turbulence affects feed forward derating control.

The second line of research is to better quantify the benefits that can be achieved with feed forward derating control. One aspect of this research would be to work with a wind farm that has emergency overspeed shutdowns to determine how much energy is lost per year and how much feed forward derating control could increase energy capture. Another aspect of this research would be to better quantify structural damage caused by large gusts and how much repair costs could be reduced by feed forward derating control. This would require calculating the Fatigue Damage ($D_{fatigue}$) caused by large gusts. As discussed in Appendix \ref{AppendixC}, Fatigue Damage is an estimate of how much a component has been damaged as a fraction of it's life ($D_{fatigue}$ = 0 indicates a new part while $D_{fatigue}$ = 1 indicates component failure). Fatigue damage calculations could potentially be used to assign a monetary value to gust induced loads. Fatigue Damage calculations are similar to Damage Equivalen Load calculations but can only be carried out if the ultimate load of the component is known. The NREL 5MW turbine is a fictional turbine and ultimate component loads do not exist, so they would need to be estimated. 

