The overarching objective of this dissertation is to explore techniques for using an upwind turbine as a feed forward sensor to improve the control of downwind turbines. The previous chapter investigated a control scheme in which wind speed measurements from the upwind turbine were used to influence the region three blade pitch control of the downwind turbine. Initial simulations seemed promising, with the downwind turbine tracking the optimal pitch angle more closely, experiencing lower structural loading, and experiencing smaller rotor overspeeds. However, further simulations showed the control scheme was sensitive to timing errors in the feed forward data, and was likely impractical as a result. 

This chapter investigates another method for improving the control of a downwind turbine using an upwind turbine as a sensor. The control scheme investigated in this chapter has been designed to overcome the shortcomings of the control system investigated in the previous chapter while maintaining many of the same performance goals. The following sections will show that this feed forward control scheme can be very insensitive to timing errors in the feed forward data, that the control system can potentially reduce wear and tear on turbine components by reducing loads caused by large gusts of wind, and that the control system can potentially increase energy capture by reducing overspeed shutdowns in response to large gusts of wind.

The feed forward control scheme investigated in this chapter relies on selective turbine derating to reduce structural loads and rotor overspeeds. Turbine derating, sometimes referred to as turbine curtailment, is when the power produced by a turbine is intentionally reduced below the nominal operating conditions of the turbine. When a turbine is derated, the reduction in power production is generally accompanied by a reduction in structural loads as the turbine extracts less energy from the wind. There are a variety of turbine derating strategies, several of which are investigated by Deshpande and Peters \cite{deshpande2012}, but they all involve reducing either the generator speed and/or the generator torque. This is not surprising since the power generated by the turbine is approximately equal to the generator speed times the generator torque.

Turbine derating can be done for a variety of reasons, and can be done at the request of an electrical utility, or can be done by the wind plant operator in an attempt to improve plant performance. The derating requirements imposed by utilities vary, but to date, most utility requested turbine derating occurs due to lack of sufficient transmission capacity on the utility grid, or in response to high wind generation at times of low electrical load.\cite{fink2009}. A utility may also ask a wind plant to derate turbines to help utility grid frequency regulation \cite{aho2012,aho2013}. A wind plant operator may derate a turbine to reduce structural loads and increase the longevity of turbine components.\cite{biegel2013}. In applications where wind turbine maintenance is difficult to schedule, such as offshore wind farms, a turbine that experiences a small amount of damage could be derated and operated at a diminished capacity until a convenient time can be found for inspection and repairs.\cite{richards2014,griffith2015}. Derating can be used to implement a "soft cut out" scheme in which the turbine will be derated in very high wind speeds instead of being completely shut down once the cut out wind speed is reached. \cite{jelavic2013} If detailed knowledge of the incoming wind speed is known, then a turbine can be dynamically derated to optimize power capture without exceeding structural loading limits.\cite{petrovic2014,petrovic2013} In some cases, derating some of the turbines in a wind plant can increase the total power production of the plant.\cite{carlen2010} 
 
 The remainder of this chapter describes and investigates a control scheme that uses turbine derating in an attempt to mitigate the detrimental effects of a large wind gust propagating through a wind farm. The following section describes the derating scheme used by the feed forward controller. Section \ref{section4-3} investigates the relationship between derating, power generation, structural loads, and rotor overspeed when a turbine is subjected to a large wind gust. Section \ref{section4-4} investigates the transition between a rated and derated state. Section \ref{section4-5} describes the feed forward control system design. Section \ref{section4-6} examines the performance of the feed forward control system when subjected to a large gust of wind. Section \ref{section4-7} discusses an area for potential further research.
 
 
 
 
upRating section ??
Turbines can also be uprated to increase energy capture. Several turbine manufacturers offer uprating packages on their turbines including General Electric's PowerUp Platform \cite{eldridge}, and Vestas's PowerPlus \cite{vestas}. Each of these systems uprate the turbines by 5\%. Though uprating a turbine increases energy capture, it also increases wear and tear on the turbine, so it is unclear if uprating a turbine is a financially viable strategy. In one study, SentientScience modeled a typical wind farm and concluded that the increased revenue from uprating turbines by 5\% would be almost entirely offset by the increased repair and maintenance costs. \cite{sentient} In the study, a wind farm without uprated turbines had a 20 year Investment Return Rate of 11.79%, while the same wind farm with 5\% uprated turbines had a  20 year Investment Return Rate of 11.80%.
