This chapter has investigated the benefits and feasibility of derating a downwind turbine based on a feed forward signal from an upwind turbine. A survey of available turbine derating literature was carried out. Three turbine derating strategies from literature were then investigated. It was found that derating a turbine by reducing the rated rotor speed yielded the largest reductions in structural loads and rotor overspeeds. The effect of turbine derating on dynamic turbine response was then investigated by simulating derated NREL 5MW turbines subjected to extreme operating gusts (EOGs). It was found that rotor speed, power, blade root bending moments, and tower fore-aft bending moments were all significantly reduced by derating and that the reduction were roughly proportional to the amount of derating. The transition into and out of derated mode was also investigated. It was found that abruptly changing the rating of an NREL 5MW turbine excited undesirable transient behavior in the turbine. However, the undesirable behavior could be avoided by using a low pass filter. A feed forward selective derating scheme based on these findings was developed. The scheme uses two possible methods to determine when to derate the downwind turbine. The first relies on a wind convection velocity estimate from the upwind turbine. The second, more conservative, method uses the range of wind speeds in which rotor overspeeds are likely to occur. 

Once the feed forward selective derating strategy was designed, the performance of that system was tested through a series of FAST simulations. The FAST simulations modeled a two turbine system in several wind conditions, including both  IEC extreme operating gusts and turbulent wind with large gusts. The simulation results were promising. The downwind turbine experienced significant reductions in tower fore-aft moments in all simulation cases, as well as reductions in blade root bending moments in some cases. More importantly, the downwind turbine did not experience any rotor overspeeds large enough to trigger an emergency shut down. The downwind turbine experienced reductions in energy generation, however those reductions were much smaller than the reductions in energy generation that would be caused by an emergency overspeed shut down.

Though the simulations carried out in this chapter show promising system performance, more investigation is needed. A real wold implementation of this system would encounter several phenomena that were not captured in these simulation. Due to the limitations of the simulation tools, neither full field turbulence nor the evolution of the wind field over time could be simulated. In addition simulating the system with a different simulation tool could potentially lend validity to the results shown in this chapter. In the following chapters a more sophisticated, though more computationally intensive, wind farm simulation tool will be investigated and used to study the feed forward selective derating scheme developed in this chapter.
 