Chapter \ref{Chapter4} investigated the benefits and feasibility of derating a downwind turbine based on a feed forward signal from an upwind turbine. In that chapter a feed forward derating control scheme was developed and evaluated using a series of FAST simulations. Though the FAST based simulation results were promising, the simulation methodology used to generate them had several noteworthy limitations. The FAST based simulations did not model emergency overspeed shutdowns or turbine to turbine wake effects. Furthermore, the FAST based simulations assumed Taylor's Frozen Turbulence Hypothesis, which provides a very simplistic model of wind speed fluctuations passing through the wind farm.

In this chapter, feed forward derating control was demonstrated and evaluated using a more sophisticated simulation tool that does not have the limitations of the FAST simulations carried out in Chapter \ref{chapter4}. NREL's Simulator fOr Wind Farm Applications (SOWFA) is a wind farm simulation tool. It uses FAST to model the dynamics of one or more turbines, a Large Eddy Simulation (LES) to model atmospheric airflow, and actuator line models to enable interaction of the LES and FAST models. Because SOWFA models atmospheric airflow, we can run simulations that will capture the evolution of a gust over time, wake effects, and the time it takes a gust to reach the downwind turbine. As we saw in Chapter \ref{chapter5}, SOWFA can be tuned to provide good agreement with both Reynolds Averaged Navier Stokes (RANS) and FAST simulations of the NREL 5MW turbine. This adds confidence that our SOWFA simulation results are realistic.

In this chapter the feed forward derating control scheme developed in Chapter \ref{chapter4} was implemented as a series of Fortran subroutines and inserted into the SOWFA source code. Additional control logic was inserted to model emergency overspeed shutdowns (Section \ref{section6-2}). SOWFA's actuator line model was tuned to produce good agreement with FAST. A Gausian projection width of 7.5 produced good agreement across the range of region 3 turbine operation (Section\ref{section6-3}). We discussed the tradeoffs involved in choosing appropriate computational domain sizes and grid resolutions. Ultimately a near rotor grid resolution of 2 m and a far field resolution of 32 m were chosen. The computational domain size was chosen to be 80R $\times$ 40R $\times$ 40R. (Section \ref{section6-4}). Section \ref{section6-5} discussed gust modeling in SOWFA. The gust was modeled using a mapped fixed value boundary condition on the inlet to the computational domain. Net inflow was held constant by increasing wind speed on some parts of the inlet while decreasing wind speed on other parts. After preliminary simulations an Extreme Coherent Gust (ECG) was chosen instead of the Extreme Operating Gust (EOG) used in Chapter \ref{chapter4} simulations.

Feed forward derating control was demonstrated and evaluated using two test cases. In the first test case one NREL 5MW turbine was 20R downwind and 3R offset from another NREL 5MW turbine. The turbines operated in a constant 12 m/s wind until an Extreme Coherent Gust (ECG) increased wind speed to 25 m/s. Without feed forward derating control the ECG caused emergency overspeed shutdowns of both turbines. Both turbines experienced similar overspeeds and Damage Equivalent Loads (DEL). The downwind turbine produced more energy, but only because it operated longer before the ECG arrived. When the test case was run with feed forward derating control enabled the downwind turbine was able to avoid an emergency overspeed shutdown. Feed forward derating control dramatically reduced the downwind turbine's overspeed and DELs while dramatically increasing power generation.

In the second test case one NREL 5MW turbine was 20R directly downwind of and in the wake of another NREL 5MW turbine. As in the previous test case, wind speed is 12 m/s until an Extreme Coherent Gust (ECG) increases wind speed to 25 m/s. In this test case the upwind turbine's wake significantly reduced the power generation of the downwind turbine. Prior to the ECG's arrival the upwind turbine generated 5,oookW while the downwind turbine produced approximately 44\% less power on average. Without feed forward derating control the ECG caused emergency overspeed shutdowns of both turbines. The downwind turbine experienced much higher Damage Equivalent Loads than the upwind turbine, especially the tower fore-aft bending moment DEL. The downwind turbine produced more energy, but only because it operated longer before the ECG arrived. When the test case was run with feed forward derating control enabled the downwind turbine was able to avoid an emergency overspeed shutdown. Feed forward derating control dramatically reduced the downwind turbine's overspeed and DELs while dramatically increasing power generation.

These test cases illustrate that feed forward derating control can enable a turbine to avoid an emergency shutdown. They also demonstrate that avoiding an emergency shutdown can greatly improve turbine performance by both reducing DELs and increasing power production. The usefulness of feed forward derating control will vary based on site specific conditions, such as how frequent emergency overspeed shutdowns occur. However, it would be very inexpensive to implement because it does not require any sensors that modern turbines don't already have. At a site with favorable conditions, feed forward derating control could provide a significant improvement in performance for a minimal financial investment.
