

In the previous section we observed that feed forward pitch control based on wind speed estimates from an upwind turbine can improve performance and reduce structural loading provided Taylor's frozen turbulence holds and we are able to perfectly estimate the convection speed of the wind. However, experiments have shown that Taylor's frozen turbulence hypothesis is never completely accurate and it is impossible to perfectly estimate the convection velocity. In this section we bring our system one step closer to reality by considering the effect of errors in the convection velocity estimate.

In Section \ref{section2-5} we discussed a method fo estimating the convection velocity by calculating the mean wind speed estimate over some period of time. For the 66 test cases examined in Section \ref{section2-5} we found that the accuracy of the convection velocity estimate varied with both the true mean wind speed, and the time period over which the wind speed estimates were averaged. For wind speeds above the rated wind speed (the conditions we are considering for feed forward pitch control) the mean discrepancy between the true and estimated convection velocity ranged from ~2$\%$ to ~4$\%$.

By making a few reasonable assumptions about our system, we can get a rough estimate of the convection velocity error we might expect for the 16 m$/$s turbulent wind field our system was subjected to in sections \ref{section3-4-2} and \ref{section3-5-2}. We can also determine how that convection velocity error would affect the timing of the feed forward wind speed estimates received by the downwind turbine. If we assume a 60 second averaging time, we might expect the error in our convection velocity estimate to average approximately 3.2$\%$ (Figure ref\fig{3-26}), or 0.5 m/s. If we assume the downwind turbine is 10 rotor diameters, or 1260 meters, behind the upwind turbine a 3.2$\%$ error in the convection velocity estimate will cause an error in the timing of the feed forward of approximately 2.5 seconds.

We can simulate the effect of an error in the convection velocity estimate by modifying the turbulent wind response simulation from Section \label{section3-5-2}. Instead of using perfectly timed feed forward wind speed estimates, the feed forward wind speed estimates is shifted in time. To determine how errors in the convection velocity estimate affect system performance we can calculate the resulting damage equivalent loads (DEL) on the tower bending moment and blade root moment.

Figure \ref{fig-3-36} illustrates how timing errors in the feed forward data affect the damage equivalent load of the tower fore-aft bending moment. A negative timing error indicates the feed forward data is ahead of the turbulent wind field. In other words, the system has overestimated the convection velocity and as a result the turbulent wind fluctuations are arriving at the downwind turbine later than the system expects them to. 

The red line indicates the tower base DEL for the upwind turbine. Since the upwind turbine does not depend on feed forward data, the tower base DEL for the upwind turbine is constant across all simulations. The blue line indicates the tower base DEL for the downwind turbine. We see from the figure that a small negative error in the convection velocity estimate actually improves performance. The minimum damage equivalent load corresponds to a timing error of approximately -0.5 seconds. We also see that if the timing error is less than -2.2 seconds or greater than 0.8 seconds the turbine with feed forward control performs worse that the turbine without feed forward control. This is troubling because earlier in this section we estimated that our timing error for this wind speed would be in the neighborhood of $\pm$2.5 seconds.

Figure \ref{fig3-37} illustrates how timing errors in the feed forward data affect the damage equivalent load of the blade root bending moment. Again, a negative timing error indicates the feed forward data is ahead of the turbulent wind field, the red line indicates the DEL of the upwind turbine, and the blue line indicates the DEL of he downwind turbine. We see that a small negative error improves performance. Like the tower base DEL, the blade root DEL is smallest when the timing error is -0.5 seconds. We also see that if the timing error is less than -4.8 seconds or greater than 2.3 seconds the turbine with feed forward control performs worse that the turbine without feed forward control. Blade root DEL is improved over a wider range of timing errors than we saw for tower base DEL, however our estimated timing error of $\pm$2.5 seconds would not guarantee that the downwind turbine with feed forward pitch control would perform better than a turbine with conventional closed loop control.

Timing errors do not affect the average power production. Each simulations simulation had an average power production of 5,000 kW. However, timing errors do affect the standard deviation of the power production. As shown in Figure \ref{fig3-38}, feed forward pitch control reduces the standard deviation of the power production when the timing error is small, but feed forward controll increases the standard deviation of the power production for timing errors greater than +2.2 seconds or less than -3.1 seconds. A small standard deviation is desirable as it indicates the power output of the turbine remains closer to the desired power output.

All of the data presented in this section tells the same story. The feed forward pitch control system is sensitive to timing errors. Though the feed forward control system improves performance when timing errors are small it can degrade performance when significantly large timing errors are present. Based on the convection velocity estimate study carried out in Section \ref{section2-5}, we can not guarantee timing errors will be small enough to ensure feed forward control will improve turbine performance. A control system that is just as likely to degrade performance as improve it is not particularly useful. As such, the results in this section show that in practice the proposed feed forward pitch control scheme proposed in this chapter is not very practical. At this point it is not worthwhile to carry out additional investigations into other real world complications the system would face, such as inaccuracies of the Taylors frozen turbulence hypothesis.

Conclusions:


In this chapter a feed forward optimal pitch control scheme is introduced and investigated. In this control scheme an upwind is used as a wind speed sensor. Wind speed measurements are passed from the upwind turbine to a feed forward controller on a downwind turbine. These wind speed measurements give the feed forward controller information about the wind speed fluctuations the downwind turbine will experience in the future. The feed forward controller determines the optimal pitch corresponding to the incoming wind speed fluctuations and issues supplementary pitch commands to the existing feedback control loop of the downwind turbine. These supplementary pitch commands enable the downwind turbine to preemptively respond to incoming wind speed fluctuations potentially improving energy capture and reducing damage to the turbine.

The control scheme is investigated through three rounds of simulation using the NREL FAST turbine simulation tool. The initial round of simulations uses a simplified idealistic model of the system, while the subsequent rounds systematically incorporate complicating factors that a real world system would encounter.  

The first round of simulations (Section \ref{section3-4}) assumes that the feed forward controller has perfect measurements of the incoming wind speed fluctuations, that the convection velocity has been estimated perfectly, and that the wind speed fluctuations experienced by the downwind turbine will be identical to the wind speed fluctuations experienced by the upwind turbine. Results show that in these conditions feed forward control significantly improves turbine performance with respect to both extreme operating gusts and turbulent wind.

The second round of simulations assumes that the convection velocity has been estimated perfectly, and that the wind speed fluctuations experienced by the downwind turbine will be identical to the wind speed fluctuations experienced by the upwind turbine. It does not assume that the feed forward controller has perfect measurements of the incoming wind speed fluctuations. Instead, the wind speed fluctuations are estimated using the dynamics of the upwind turbine. The results from the second round of simulations show smaller performance improvements from the use of feed forward optimal pitch control (compared to the first round of simulations). However, in these conditions feed forward control still significantly improves turbine performance.

The third round of simulations assume that the wind speed fluctuations experienced by the downwind turbine will be identical to the wind speed fluctuations experienced by the upwind turbine. Wind speed fluctuations are estimated using the dynamics of the upwind turbine and a variety of timing errors are introduced to simulate the effect of errors in estimating the convection velocity. Results from this round of simulations show that the feed forward optimal pitch control system is very sensitive to timing errors. If the timing of the data is off by more than a few seconds the feed forward control system can cause a turbine to perform more poorly than a turbine without feed forward control.

The feed forward optimal pitch control scheme presented in this chapter seemed promising trough the first two rounds of simulations. However, the system's high sensitivity to timing errors, and therefore the systems high sensitivity to errors in the estimation of the convection velocity, ultimately make this control scheme impractical in real world applications. In order to effectively use an upwind turbine as a sensor to improve the performance of a downwind turbine we must investigate alternate control schemes that will be less sensitive to timing errors.





