Chapter \ref{Chapter2} investigates using a wind turbine as a sensor. It discusses the sensors that are present on a typical wind turbine and how sensor data can be used to gather useful information for feed forward control. Much of the chapter focuses on using turbine dynamics to estimate wind speed and convection velocity. Chapter \ref{Chapter2} also discusses the accuracy that can be expected from such estimates and discusses some of the factors that influence accuracy. 

In Chapter \ref{Chapter3}, a feed forward optimum pitch control scheme is introduced and investigated. In this control scheme an upwind is used as a wind speed sensor. Wind speed measurements are passed from the upwind turbine to a feed forward controller on a downwind turbine. The downwind turbine uses the knowledge of incoming wind speed to proactively adjust turbine blade pitch, potentially improving energy capture and reducing damage to the turbine. The control scheme is investigated through three rounds of simulation using the NREL FAST turbine simulation tool. The initial round of simulations uses a simplified idealistic model of the two turbine system, while the subsequent rounds systematically incorporate complicating factors that a real world system would encounter.  

Chapter \ref{Chapter4} investigates the benefits and feasibility of derating a downwind turbine based on a feed forward signal from an upwind turbine. Several derating strategies from literature are investigated to determine which is most feasible for feed forward control. The effects of derating on turbine loading and rotor overspeeds are examined. The transition into and out of derated mode is also investigated, as well as ways to mitigate undesirable turbine behavior during the transition. A feed forward selective derating scheme based on these findings is then developed. The performance of that feed forward control system is tested and evaluated using a series of FAST simulations. The FAST simulation results are promising, but it is determined that testing Feed Forward Derating Control with a different and more sophisticated wind turbine simulation tool would be beneficial.
  
Chapter \ref{Chapter 5} is a verification and validation study of SOWFA (Simulator fOr Wind Farm Applications), a wind farm simulation tool. FAST must model a single turbine at time, but SOWFA can model a group of wind turbines as well at the atmospheric flow field surrounding those turbines. This gives SOWFA several advantages over FAST when modeling a two turbine system with feed forward control. However, SOWFA is much more computationally expensive than FAST and is less established in the wind turbine community. In Chapter \ref{Chapter5} the NREL 5-MW rotor is simulated using SOWFA, OVERFLOW2 and FAST. The results from these fundamentally different simulation tools are compared to see how well they agree. In addition, the chapter evaluates how near-rotor grid resolution and near-rotor grid length affect SOWFA simulation results. The results shown in Chapter \ref{Chapter5} increase confidence in SOWFA and provide guidance about how to properly tune and use SOWFA.

In Chapter \ref{Chapter6}, Feed Forward Derating Control is simulated and evaluated using SOWFA. The first portion of the chapter documents background work required to simulate the control system in SOWFA. Sections discuss implementing the feed forward controller, tuning SOWFA's actuator line model, choosing an appropriate computational domain, and gust modeling in SOWFA. The second portion of the chapter documents SOWFA simulation results for two test cases. One test case that matches the conditions assumed for Chapter \ref{Chapter4} FAST simulations, and one test case where turbine wake effects are prominent. In each test case a two turbine system is subjected to a large gust. The behavior of the upwind turbine, a downwind turbine without feed forward control, and a downwind turbine with Feed Forward Derating Control are compared and analyzed.

Chapter \ref{Chapter7} summarizes the dissertation and presents areas for future work.




