The methods discussed in previous sections aren't the only ways to use a turbine as a sensor for feed forward control. A typical turbine has other sensors that are potentially useful for feed forward control. This section briefly discusses two of those sensors, the wind vane and the rotor speed sensor.

Utility scale turbines are equipped with wind vane's that measure wind direction. Wind direction measurements are not used in this dissertation. The feed forward control schemes developed in Chapter \ref{Chapter3} and Chapter \ref{Chapter4} are simulated in a two turbine system where wind direction is treated as a known quantity. However, in a real world application of these feed forward control systems, wind direction measurements would be critical. In a wind farm each turbine would have many other turbines it could share information with. Wind direction would tell each turbine which other turbines it should send information to and which turbines it should receive information from. In many wind farms, wind direction changes seasonally or over the course of each day. As wind direction changes, wind vane readings would help the wind farm adapt and adjust how turbines share data for feed forward control.


Section \ref{section2-4} shows that rotor speed can be used with blade pitch and knowledge of turbine dynamics to estimate wind speed. However, rotor speed also has the potential to be useful on it's own. In region 3 control, the NREL 5-MW turbine attempts to track a constant rotor speed of 12.1 RPM. Any deviation from 12.1 RPM indicates a change in wind speed. Larger and/or more abrupt changes in wind speed result in larger deviations from 12.1 RPM. Since large abrupt changes in wind speed result in large structural loads on the turbine, there is a correlation between how much the rotor deviates from 12.1 RPM and how much gust induced structural loading the turbine experiences. Monitoring rotor speed could potentially be used as a simple way to identify the most damaging gusts. For example, a feed forward control system could consider anything causing a rotor speed over 13.31 RPM (10\% higher than the rated speed of 12.1 RPM) an extreme gust event. Whenever evidence of an extreme gust event is observed, the feed forward control system could take some kind of action to prepare downwind turbines for the gust.



